>> Marcy Sutton: And now we're gonna do
some testing on apps in the wild, and
I'm not picking on anyone.
A lot of the issues that we'll find,
there's like strengths and
weaknesses in these examples, and a lot
of these things are not unique to them.
So I'm not picking on anyone,
one person or one company.
So this first link is a slack JSON file
viewer and it's from the Gatsby slack.
So I'm the only one or
people on that slack are the only ones
who can view this particular link.
But you can sort of look at the URL and
it is an uploaded JSON file.
So if you're in a slack workspace, and you
upload either a text file or a JSON file,
you can find this interface.
So let's open it and
see what's going on with this.
So they've got this web page.
And this might not be core to
the slack application, but
I'm sure it's got some interaction on it.
And I put it in the camp of
accessible web applications or
its not super accessible, but
in the things that we could be evaluating.
So this JSON file is some feedback that
we've been collecting on the Gatsby js.org
website it's got just a data dump of
the comments that people have made.
And if i tab through the web
page I can't really see
where I am, and so
a kind of hot tip if you're having trouble
figuring out where you are on the screen
for the sighted testers in the audience.
You can just kind of click in the web page
to set your focus point just to figure out
like okay, am I at the end of the page or
something, what's happening here?
Little quick tip.
So there's a number of items
here that I can't reach.
And if I hover over this little star,
it's says star this file.
It's got a tool tip, but
I couldn't get to it.
And there's some controls over here in the
top right of this little widget that say
Actions.
And there is a little pop up menu
here that I couldn't even get to.
So for a keyboard user or a screen reader
user, you just can't use that feature.
Which is not equal, we should do
more to make that more accessible.
So there's that problem.
And then once I had tabbed,
I'm actually trapped in this content
editable region where the data lives,
where this JSON raw file is.
Because there's something going on here
where it's trapped my keyboard focus and
I can't get it out.
I can't shift tab,
I can't hit tab, I'm locked in.
So that's a pretty blocking issue that
you might not even uncover unless
you're testing with the keyboard.
So there's a couple of issues there.
And to debug real quick, what I would
do to figure out what's going on is I
inspect the element in the developer
tools and I can go and
look at what is going
on with this element.
So there's a button here.
Its focusable so
if my focus is landing on this button.
But in the CSS, there is an outline zero.
And I actually,
from looking at this earlier,
found that there's two outline
zeroes on this particular button.
So now if I tab onto it,
I can see where I am on the screen.
And we'll talk a little bit more about
CSS later on but we wanna make sure we're
actually testing with the keyword so
we can see where we are on the screen.
Cuz if you can't use the mouse,
that's a pretty fundamental feature.
And through user testing
I've found that those visual
outlines are really helpful for
a lot of people.
So there's the slack viewer.
One more thing I was gonna show you about
this actions menu to see what's going on
with this one.
So, this is an anchor tag,
which is a link element.
And we'll talk about links and
buttons a little later on.
But this anchor tag is not focusable
because it's missing an H ref attribute.
So, whenever you're writing HTML, and
we'll talk about semantics more as well,
we wanna make sure we're using
elements to their full potential.
So, that way we're not missing these,
like really core features
of elements like anchors.
So they're focusable,
they're controls, like I mentioned,
they're supposed to
navigate a user somewhere.
So this maybe wasn't the best
element to pick like maybe a button
would be more accurate for
something interactive like this.
But the lack of an h ref just
means I can't get to it at all.
So that's how I would debug things
like go figure out what is, you know,
see what the interactions are missing and
then go dig into the dev tools and
see what okay, well,
what elements did they use?
Like, why is this not working?
So let's go to the next one.
I've got GitHub and GitHub's been doing
a lot of work around accessibility,
which is great because there's a lot
of developers with disabilities and
a lot of developers with repetitive
use injuries like myself.
And so you wanna be able to use the
keyboard to be that power user and or even
just regular user you know, average people
who just need to use the the website.
And so if I tab through this one, they've
got a skip to content link at the top.
Some pretty great features here.
I'm going to skip by some of the stuff so
they've got some menus here that if I
tab onto a button, hit the enter key.
I am now in this little menu and
I can use the arrow keys.
I can hit Esc, and it will send
my focus back where I came from.
So this is an improvement on
the one we saw from slack and
that is focusable and
interactive from the keyboard.
And I'm gonna run a browser
extension on this page.
So I've got ax installed in Chrome,
I'm going to go over here,
pass the elements tab and go to ax.
And I've got this page rendered so
I can hit analyze and
it will return some results for me.
And I'm gonna pop this DevTools window
out so we can see a little bit more.
So it found 37 issues that we
would need to go through and
see like okay what is it returning?
So it says an ID attribute must be unique.
It's on a details menu like it tells
me where in the page this lives,
which element it's talking about.
So I guess there's an input,
that might be the one it's referenced.
I'll have to go look so to figure
out what element it's referring to,
I have a couple options.
I can hit this highlight button.
And put this on the bottom maybe.
So highlight, see where was it.
It might be a hidden element or like
a mobile view or something so what I can
also do is hit, inspect node, and
I can find the element in the dev tools.
And if I Ctrl click on it and
say scroll into view.
Yeah, this has got to be like,
hidden somehow,
maybe something further up the DOM
tree we'll go to the next one.
Sometimes it takes a little bit of
debugging to figure out cuz we can do
a lot of really tricky
things with web pages.
So the next rule that it returned was
elements should not have a tab
index greater than zero.
And we'll talk about tab index.
This one has a tab index of one.
This one is labeled as best practice.
So it's not what we would call
an accessibility violation,
which is something that you
absolutely have to fix.
Best practices are things
that are good to consider.
But you can actually filter these over
here so I can filter by violations.
And the only one that's actually returning
is this idea attribute must be unique.
So that's where I would start,
is like focus on the violations and
make sure you're addressing
the things that are actually issues
because the best practices
are sort of subjective.